							************ Git & GitHub Part - 2 ***********

Q1.How to check  if git is available on your device ?

ANS: To check if git is available on your device, you can follow these steps :

	1.open a git software .

	2. once you have the software open.type following command and press Enter:

		git  --version

	    this command check the vesion of git installed on your device. if git is installed, you will 
	    see the vesion number displayed in the output. for example, it may look like:

		git version 2.32.0
	     
	     if git is not installed,you may see and error massage stating that the command is not 
	     rrecognized ot that git is not found.

Q2.How to initalized a new git repository ?

ANS: To initalized a new git repository,follow these steps :

	1.open your Git software.
	2.navigate to the directory where you want to create the git repository. you can
	   use the 'cd' command to change directories .
	for example, if you want to create the repository in your "Documents " folder :

			d document

	3.once you're in the desired directory, use the following command to initalize the git repository : 
		
			git init

	this command will create a new, empty git repository in the current directory.


Q3.How to tell git about your name or email ?

ANS: To tell git about your name and email, you can use the following commands :

		1. Open a git software .
		2. Run the following commands, replacing "your name" and "your-email@example.com"with your actual
		     name and email address.
			
			git config --global user.name "your name "
			git config --global user.email "your-email@example.com"

		3.verify that the configuration has been set correctly by running the following command .

				git config --global --get user.name
				git config --global --get user.email


Q4.How to add a file to the staging area ?
ANS :To add a file to the staging area in git, you can use the "git add " command here's how you can do it :
 
	1. Open a git software 
	2.Run the following command to add a specific file to the staging area :
		
		git add demo.doc 

	3.If you want to add all the modified and new files in your repository to the staging area, you can use 
	    the following command :

			git add .

	4.Once you have added the file(s) to the staging area, you can verify the status  of the files by running :

			git status



Q5.how to remove a file from the staging area ?
ANS: To remove a file from the staging area in git, you can use  the "git reset " command. here's how you can do it.

	1.Open a git software .
	2. Run the following command to add a specific file to the staging area :

		git reset demo.txt

	3.if you want to remove all files from the staging area,you can use the following command :

			git reset

	4.Once you have removed the files from the staging area, you can verify the status of the files
	     by running.

			git status 


Q6.how to make a commit ?
ANS :To make a commit in git, you need to follow these steps :

	1.Open a git software .
	2.Run the following command to create a commit :

		git commit -m "first commit "

	3. you can use the 'git log ' command to view the commit history, including the 
	    commint massages and their respective 

		git log


Q7.How to send your changes to a remote repository ?
ANS :To send your changes to a remote repository, you can follow these general steps :

		1.Open a git software 
		2. Add the remote repository : if you haven't already, you need to add the remote repository
		    as a remote in your local repository . this step is usually done once. you can use the following
		    git coammnd.

				git remote add origin <remote_repository_url>

		3.Push your changes : once you have committed your changes and added the remote
		    repository, you can push your changes to the remote repository.this step sends your
	            committed changes to the remote repository. use the following git command.

					git push origin <branch_name>

Q8.What is different between clone and pull ?
ANS :In the context of version control systems like Git, "clone" and "pull" are two different operations.

Clone: When you clone a repository, you create a copy of the entire repository, including its entire history, branches, and tags. 
	Cloning is typically done when you want to start working on a project from scratch or when you want to make a local copy of a
 	remote repository. It sets up a new directory on your local machine that contains all the files and commits from the remote 
	repository.

			Example: git clone <repository_url>

Pull: Pulling, or more precisely, "git pull," is used to update your local repository with the latest changes from a remote repository. 
	It combines two operations: fetching and merging. First, it fetches the latest commits and updates the remote branch references 
	in your local repository, allowing you to see what has changed. Then, it automatically merges those changes into your current 
	branch, incorporating the latest updates.

			Example: git pull
